[Music]
hey I don't know about you but I find
kids amazing I mean just look at how
they think their vivid imagination and
creativity multiplied by their seemingly
endless energy resource are things that
rarely get carried on to adulthood so do
they perceive the world differently than
adults do sign says yes and here's how
exactly number one their imagination
borders with reality
do you remember yourself at a very young
age if you do you probably also remember
believing in Santa Claus
tooth fairy and other fantastical beings
numerous experiments have shown that
little kids easily believe in
supernatural things but they're not so
naive as you may think they don't fall
for completely made-up stuff and make a
distinction between fiction and reality
for example as early as the age of three
they already know when other people
really do something from when they
pretend to and can tell an imaginary
thing from a real one also they
distinguish toys from actual objects
professor Jacqueline D Woolley
from the University of Texas has proven
that children up to the age of 11 can
believe even in the most unlikely
creatures and phenomena they just need
the right motivation show a little kid a
magic trick and they'll readily accept
that you're a wizard hmm I guess it's
time to blow the dust off my magic wand
number two they don't know what abstract
means scientists distinguish two stages
of development the one before you turn
11 and the one after the difference
between them is that kids under 11 years
old still can't think in an abstract
manner while those older than 11 already
can I'll give you an example here's a
question there are three siblings Mike
Sarah and Tom if Mike is taller than
Sarah and Sarah is taller than Tom who
is the tallest of them
if you can answer this immediately
you're older than eleven congratulations
I guess on the other hand if you first
must draw a picture of the three then
you're still in the first stage of
development which is the concrete stage
the thing is adults can do all sorts of
things right inside their heads with the
stuff they haven't yet experienced yet
kids though must first see or touch the
object before doing something with it as
they gain knowledge about the world they
start applying rules to it until finally
they don't need concrete examples before
their eyes number three
at first they can't recognize their
parents in addition to seeing the world
differently and their minds I kids quite
literally have altered vision well not
really kids but newborn babies when they
first open their eyes everything around
them is unfocused and blurred and they
can't distinguish the faces in front of
them so no new parents your babies don't
recognize you or your obstetrician for
that matter the state of blurriness
holds on until the baby is 6 months old
by the age of nine months its vision
becomes clearer but it still can only
tell if the face it sees is a familiar
one or not such perks like color and
full HD resolution come at the age of
one year number four they learn
languages lightning-fast if you've ever
tried to learn a new language you might
have noticed that with age it becomes
more and more difficult to do so in fact
there's a whole theory about this
explained by linguist Noam Chomsky he
says there's a certain device in the
child's brain that allows them to learn
new languages much faster than adults
he calls it language acquisition device
or el-ad now don't get me wrong it's not
something you can see in a brain MRI
scan it's a purely hypothetical thing
used to explain just how exactly
children are so
much better at grasping new language
info Chomsky suggested that the LA D
exists as part of human evolution since
we are social creatures we need to
communicate and so we need a language
ASAP that's when this device comes in
handy at a young age we acquire new
information fast and even apply grammar
rules in a correct way isn't it crazy
how little kids learn to talk just by
listening to people around them without
any teachers yeah go try that trick when
you're thirty or sixty number five what
they know is more important than what
they see kids don't dig perspective in
an experiment conducted at the
University of Durham children of
different ages were given a task to draw
a picture of a cup placed in front of
them the cup had two features a handle
and a flower drawn on its side when
drawing the kids could see the flower
but not the handle however they knew the
handle was there as a result the
children over eight years of age drew
the cup as it was put before them no
handle and a flower on the side the kids
of seven years or younger though all
drew pictures of a cup with a handle but
no flower the experiments showed that
children under the age of seven to eight
years old
lack the understanding of perspective or
point of view even when asked to copy
the image before them they would draw
what they know not what they see so if
they know there's a handle it'll be in
the drawing too even if they don't see
it now that makes me wonder what if they
get it right and it's we who don't
understand the real meaning of things
hmm number six they think everyone knows
what they know under a certain age
children don't realize that not everyone
thinks the same way as they do and knows
things they know this was proven in
another experiment what's up with all
that experimenting on kids huh
it was conducted at MRC London Institute
of Medical Sciences it became known as
the sally-ann task in short the children
met with two dolls Sally and Anne Sally
had a basket and Anne had a box first
the kids see Sally put a marble in her
basket and leave the room then Anne
quietly steals the marble and hides it
in her box instead when Sally returns to
the room the children are asked where
she will look for the marble first all
kids under the age of three immediately
pointed at Anne's box while those older
than four years pointed to the basket
this show that little children didn't
realize sally couldn't have known Anne
had taken the marble they thought if
they knew that so would she now that
explains why my daughter looks at me
like I'm silly when she hides something
number seven if they don't see it it
doesn't exist you know the game of
peekaboo right ever wondered how it
works though you see children under the
age of one are unable to realize that
something they don't see still exists in
fact when they stop seeing an object for
them it disappears forever
that's exactly why babies laugh when you
play that game with them you cover your
face with your hands and the little one
thinks you're gone then you say peekaboo
and here you are again Wow
what a trick too bad you can't keep it
like this in adulthood you know when
you've not done your homework in school
and the teacher asks you a question and
you're just poof gone number eight they
don't know things can be reversed if
something's done it can't be undone
that's how little kids think and it
concerns virtually everything if you
show a three-year-old that a shoelace
can be tied they'll think it's tied
forever and may well start crying when
they can't get the shoe off
the most interesting part of this is
perhaps the fact that kids also can
combine two different dimensions of an
object at once for example if there are
two glasses of equal volume before a
child one tall but slim the other short
but broad they'll think of the short one
as being larger so when you pour water
from a tall glass into the short one for
the kid the amount of water will become
bigger too whew magic number nine their
understanding of morals differs from
ours
morals are in fact quite subjective and
they vary depending on the culture
that's why moral judgment is not
something kids have the innate ability
to understand they learn morals from
experience and while they're still very
small they don't know such a thing even
exists researchers from the Simon Fraser
University in Canada conducted
experiments again that showed children
under the age of three follow a moral
code mainly to avoid punishment while
older kids already understand that good
deeds can be rewarded all this
eventually leads to an adult view of
what's good and what's bad I'll give you
an example when asked what is worse to
break one glass on purpose or to break
several by accident little children
would answer that breaking more glasses
does more harm
and so it's worse they don't yet
understand the concept of doing
something by accident because they're
simply not experienced enough they know
that if they break a glass at home
they'll be punished by their parents
period okay that makes me a bit sorry
right now can you think of other ways
kids are different from adults well
they're smaller let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy